To get a better understanding of this.
What we want to do is take a look at the same situation, Wolf, with some slight modifications.
OK, this is weird, and this is sort of a similar odd contradicting effect that we serve a time dilation
with the twin paradox.
But we can resolve it.
OK.
And it's possible for Philip and Terence to have conflicting opinions that are correct that are correct.
Whoa.
Sounds weird.
Calm down.
We're going to fix it, OK, so what we're going to do is we're going to take the same situation here.
And we're going to say that there are two events.
There is an event that occurs right here, we'll call events one.
And there's going to be event that occurs right here.
We'll call that event too.
We're going to stipulate that as this train flies through this tunnel.
We're going to send gates that close the tunnel quickly and then open again, and then it flies through.
So terrorists is going to go a bit faster than point nine three three C..
To amplify this length contraction, so he's smaller than 20 feet so he can fit in there.
And when he is inside the tunnel boom events one and two are simultaneously and that's a key work you've
got in the back of your head south, famously going to shut up and then open or closed.
No, nope.
And according to Philip, he's like, That's no problem, because as it goes through the tunnel, that
door is going to go up.
He's going to fit inside the tunnel.
It's going to go open and then it's going to fly through it.
OK.
But according to terrorists, he's highly conflicted.
He's highly conflicted because what he says is there's no way I can fit inside of this thought on the
doors close.
It's literally going to cut my car in half.
OK.
So to summarize and give you a graphical representation of the dilemma that we're trying to resolve
here, I'm going to draw another picture.
OK.
So for Terence?
If he has his little box car here with the big wheels, because I'm such a great artist, such a great
artist.
What he's going to observe, or rather what Philip is going to observe, is that at some point there's
going to be a tunnel
which encapsulates this.
This is going to be P's interpretation.
But in terms reference frame, there's no way this can fit in there.
So what's going to happen is when the sky closes, it's going to look maybe something like this where
it closes and it cuts off the two ends of its box cutter.
Who's right?
Well, as I just said, they're both right.
Let's resolve this dilemma.
That dilemma is what Einstein actually brought up in one of his good, his German thought experiments.
And he called this the train paradox.
Let's resolve.
He's all this.
What we need to take a look at is another relativistic effect that Einstein actually talked about,
and what he said is that the simultaneity of events is relative and not absolute.
I'm going to see that again, the simultaneity of events is relative, but not absolute.
What world did I just say?
Simultaneity?
That's a big word.
Let's break it down.
I like using linguistics to convey the meaning of words and phenomena right in physics.
We generally take a concept, an idea, a word, and that word.
The linguistics behind it expressed the phenomenon.
It brings it to life.
So simultaneity, as it implies from the root word simultaneous, means that events occur at the same
exact time.
So Philip was standing here right in everyday situations if these closed at the same time.
Right.
It's pretty easy to to assert that Philip would see the gates closing at the same time.
That's not surprising.
But what we need to understand is that our experience of life of the universe is nothing more than our
perception of the events that are transpiring in front of us, right?
It's contingent upon or dependent upon our perspective of the world around us, right?
Depending upon how we collect information about events transpiring in front of us that dictates the
experience we're going to hold, right?
So if we receive different information, different sets of facts in our perspective, right?
It will look like those events transpired in a different way than somebody else who may be collecting
different information, right?
This is not surprising.
This happens in physics.
This is what we're studying in terms of relativity with time dilation, where time the the way in which
it's it, it arises, the way in which we experience that it's contingent upon what reference we were
in when information we obtained.
We see that with length contraction, where they're both collecting different information, terrorism
fill up.
And because of that, different phenomena of life contraction occur, right?
But that information we we achieve, the information we receive, right, depending upon the motion
which it comes in and the times in which it comes in.
That's going to dictate the situation that arise.
So let's take a step back and let's dive a bit more into this.
OK.
So when an event occurs, when it transpires in front of us, if we're talking about the observation
of that event, the information that is conveyed to us is the light that is coming back right.
If I take this marker and I drop it in the event of it hitting the floor and the event of you seeing
it, that is marked by light hitting the marker or reflecting off of it and going back into my eyes.
And that conveys the experience, the hand that conveys and illustrates the situation in front of me.
So in everyday situations?
Right.
This is something we don't really take a closer look at because light travels so fast that if you have
relative motion and you're moving the distance, that light coming into this, if you're moving in this,
this direction, the light coming in here, right?
That's going to minimize the distance that might have to travel, and it's going to increase the distance
the light has to travel from back here.
But at small velocities, right, that is sort of negligible, right?
Because the light is traveling so fast.
But as we start traveling closer to the speed of light, what's going to happen is that that distance
that you travel relative to the light coming in is going to make a big difference.
So it may appear in an everyday life situation where there's discrepancies don't pop up, where it's,
you know, it's negligible that distance that it may look like an event occurs at the same time.
But in your reality, in your relative motion, right when you're moving in a reference frame, it may
look as though you receive certain information before other information and one event may appear to
occur before another event.
Let's illustrate that let's draw it up, and let's take a closer look at that.
OK.
So what I'm talking about is if we take Terrence's reference there, if we take this guy and we have
a boxcar as such, it's traveling at a velocity of close to the speed of light.
And we have a gate here and a gate here.
All through all the tracks.
So this guy, these guys appear to come up at the same time.
The information has to travel to parents.
Here before that event can transpire in his reference frame, so we may have some little light coming
over here.
It's going at the speed, see?
So if this travels?
In Delta T, when it's going to do is, it's going to travel, let's say.
A distance.
Typically, the reality right now is using basic kinematics, yup, x is equal to fidelity.
So.
The distance that this plane has to travel to get to the front of the box car is.
Decreased by this amount.
We're on the back end.
This guy, what it has to travel is an additional.
Distance because this traveled.
In this direction.
V Delta T also.
And has to travel.
Plus.
V Delta T.
OK, so back here, what it has to travel is this distance, this distance.
In order for terrorists to see it, we're assuming that this is the distance between these are negligibly
negligibly small.
Rather, we could extend this out to get the terrorists OK.
Apparently, that's a better way to do so, the distance this information has to travel.
It's going to be C T minus B and T is the time in which for this this guy, it takes for that to reach
it.
But on this end.
This is it has to travel.
And we're going to soon he stands in the middle.
We don't want any discrepancies where, oh, he's in the front of the boxcars, so it takes longer to
see that we're we're doing the distances are equal initially.
OK, no discapacidad.
So what this information this information has to travel a distance to see.
Plus, Viti and I'm separating the times because what I'm going to say is that this distance is going
to be smaller because of the relative motion that has to travel.
So T1 is going to be smaller than T2.
And in this reference frame?
What he is going to see is that when he's traveling into this guy.
His boxcar.
It's going to be maybe right about here.
I can draw a picture for you guys.
Well, he's going to see is his boxcar.
You're going to be.
We'll see say this is.
As such, it's going to be the tunnel when his box car is right here.
That, too, is going to transpire because he sees it first, because it takes less time for him to
observe that event.
So this is going to close, it's going to go up.
And then it's going to open right away.
And then at a separate time.
Something that looks like this.
This is going to go up, and he's going to see it go up.
OK.
So according to Terrence, his experience of the universe, which is not absolute.
He's going to say Event two occurs first and then event one occurs because I'm moving close to the speed
of light.
So if I'm moving towards event one, that information reaches me first.
And then the information can me that one reaches me so that a second.
And he's right, he's right.
That's what happens in his reference frame.
But in Phillip's situation, the light is traveling so fast that any discrepancies between the distance
between them, he cannot actually see that in everyday life.
Or you can make it simpler.
You can say he stands right here in the middle.
So it's the same exact distance.
And what he sees is that the words go up and they come down.
But you you will have to agree that if fill up does not see it, a train gets sliced in half.
Then, in Terrence's reference frame, there's no way it can get sliced in half because you would have
to see the parts fall off.
And this is what is happening.
This is what explains it.
This says that, according to Philip, it looks like this shrinks and it gets in the tunnel.
And he's right.
It can fit in the tunnel.
But according to Terrence.
This tunnel looks like it shrinks, and there's no way you can fit inside the tunnel.
And he's right.
But when they're inside of the tunnel, when it closes.
The simultaneity of events.
Or rather, the fact that the simultaneity of events is relative.
Philip is going to say the tours are going to close when he's inside of it, and he's right, and Terence
is going to say that this guy is going to close for us, it's like a come off, it's going to open,
he's going to fly through.
And then when he's about to exit the tunnel, when he's he, he's.
Going in in the backside in this part, here is that one, it's going to go up.
It's not going to slice them in half and then it's going to fly out.
And in that situation, what they agree on is that the train goes through the tunnel.
It does not get sliced, but they have different interpretations of the events that transpired blocks
that special relativity.
It's a weird.
It's contradicted.
But it's a way for bridging the gap between two individuals where they experience different situations.
But they can still talk about it.
And the ultimate, I guess, transpiration of events in their situations line up and they can agree
on some facts.
They have a universal conception of reality.
They can communicate about what's going on, and that is what is special about special relativity.
Her little upon that is special because it allows any individual to experience the universe, but also
convey that in a way that somebody else can understand and make sense of, OK.
So that's length contraction.
What we've observed up to now is that length, contraction and time dilation are very weird, very weird
situations to prop up that don't normally happen in an everyday life situation here on Earth, in a
sense that we can have two true statements that contradict each other.
But they're still right, and they can still agree on that situation by taking a look at different little
idiosyncrasies associated with the events that transpire in both reference.
OK, so we observed all these weird ideas.
We've got this nice foundation for putting together a bridge, for making that nice universal conception
of reality.
Bridging these two different interpretations of the universe.
What we want to do is we want to finish paving that bridge.
You want to use the foundation and put together and finalize that bridge.
So in the next video, what we're going to talk about is something known as a Lorentz transformation,
and that's going to be sort of the analog of what we used in the beginning of the course with the Galilean
transformation that was used without taking account of special relativistic effects.
OK, so we're going to have a blueprint, a map that dictates if Philip wants to translate his experience
and appearances, he can have this map, this formula you can follow, and Terence can do the same thing.
I hope you enjoyed this weird experience.
I hope you enjoy this mind boggling situation that really challenge you and help you better understand
length contraction.
And I look forward to talking about the Lorenz transformation next.
Stay tuned.